Another very incredible function in JavaScript is known as this indexOf() function, and what does it
do? Well at the very basic level,
it tells you if a given item can be found in an array or a string.
The indexOf() method was added to the
ECMA-262nd Standard, in the fifth edition.
Ah, what that means is that it was just added on December 3rd of 2009.
So what I'm trying to say is you don't have to worry about browsers not incorporating this method.
Every browser today will allow you to use the indexOf method.
OK, great Clyde,
all browsers can accept it
but what does it look like when we start using it?
Well, firstly, you call the indexOf method by typing its words,
its keywords "indexOf". It then takes two arguments.
The first argument is the search item, a.k.a. the item you want to search for, and the second argument
is optional.
It's the starting point of your search.
Don't worry, we're going to be seeing examples of this shortly.
So there you go.
That's kind of what it looks like high level.
And as I mentioned, we're going to be looking at examples. But before we do, there is something very important
you need to understand.
And that is, this indexOf() method only exists for two data types in JavaScript. And the first data
type that it exists on is ... Arrays.
What is an Array? In JavaScript an Array is just a single variable that is used to store different elements.
And bear in mind, the JavaScript Array is a global object, meaning you can kind of access it from
anywhere you like.
But enough talk. I actually wanna jump over to our text editor
and I wanna start coding Arrays with you, and I want to start looking at this indexOf() method, specifically
on Arrays.
Let's jump over to the console and let's start playing around.